In the last lecture, we finished our set up which allowed us to load an item.
Now I want to make sure that if we are in the editMode, we actually don't add a new one but update the
existing one.
It starts in the template with the button name, here this won't be add at all times,
instead this will only be add if we are indeed adding an item,
otherwise it will be safe.
So here we can check if editMode
and if this is true and I'm using a ternary expression here, I want to output update maybe,
otherwise if we are not in editMode,
so if we are creating a new item, I will save add.
And now with that, we see add is the default
but if I click an item here, this switches to update. Now with that, of course I also want to change the
way we save this. So in onAddItem,
right now we always call add ingredient,
now that's not correct if we want to update an existing one.
First of all in the shopping list service, I'll add a new method which I'll name updateIngredient,
updateIngredient
and here I expect to get the index of the ingredient which should be updated and the new ingredient
of type ingredient.
And with that information, I can simply reach out to my ingredients, get the one with the index I'm
looking for and set it equal to the new ingredient and thereafter, I want to call ingredients changed
and emit my updateIngredients
and as always, just a slice of them as we did before.
So with this, I'm now updating the ingredients here,
we need to call this method in onAddItem if we are in editMode.
Well, nothing easier than that, we can simply use an if expression, check our mode here,
so if editMode, if editMode is true, well then I don't want to add a new ingredient,
then I want to reach out to the shopping list service and call updateIngredient
and here I will pass my editedItemIndex and my new ingredient, otherwise then in this case here, I will
call add ingredient.
So now if we save this, we should see that indeed if I change this to 10 here or 19 because I mistyped and
I click update, it does update here
and the same for tomatoes, it updates here, of course
also if I rename this to bread.
So that's working,
that is awesome.
Now let's see if it also works if we create a new item,
Bread, now it correctly adds a new one
and if we now click on this, we do indeed edit it, so this works fine.
However now I also want to reset the form after updating or creating an item
and I also want to make this clear button work as well as the delete button.
Let's start with resetting the form though
in the next lecture.